= Mail =

To send mails we extended the external class PHPMailer (available at http://phpmailer.codeworxtech.com ).

== Example ==
*Controller-Code:*
{{{
<?php
// ... Controller-Code
 
$vars['subject']        = 'I am just a Subject';
$vars['copy']           = 'Now, I am a mail copy text.';
 
// create HTML version of the mail
$this->load('view:view_html');
$this->view_html->setHandler('smarty');
$this->view_html->setProperty('template', '_mailer/newsletter_html');
$this->view_html->setContent($vars);
$view_html = $this->view_html->get();
 
// create text version of the mail
$this->load('view:view_text');
$this->view_text->setHandler('smarty');
$this->view_text->setProperty('template', '_mailer/newsletter_text');
$this->view_text->setContent($vars);
$view_text = $this->view_text->get();
 
// send mail
$this->load('mail', $this->config->get('mail'));
$this->mail->Subject = 'Just a dummy subject';
$this->mail->AddAddress('test@domain.com');
$this->mail->Body = stream_get_contents($view_html['content']);
$this->mail->AltBody = stream_get_contents($view_text['content']);
$this->mail->Send(false);
 
// ... Controller-Code
?>
}}}

*_mailer/newsletter_html.tpl*
{{{
<html>
<head>
        <title>{$content.subject}</title>
</head>
 
<body>
 
{$content.copy}
 
</body>
</html>
}}}

*_mailer/newsletter_text.tpl*
{{{
---------------------------------------------------------------------
{$content.subject}
---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
{$content.copy}
}}}

== Methods ==

You have access to all methods the original PHPMailer provides. Furthermore we added or rewrote the following methods.

=== _object `__`construct( array $config )_ ===
This method overwrites the standard method.
The constructor accepts an array with parameters for overwriting standard parameters of PHPMailer.

=== _bool Send( [ bool $confirm = false] )_ ===
This method overwrites the standard method.
We extended the original method with the additional parameter *$confirm*.
Set *$confirm* to true if you really want to send the mail. If set to false the method will output a dump of all important parameters for the mail delivery. Return TRUE on success an FALSE on failure.