<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

This framework gives you the power to handle 95% of your website jobs very efficiently and is based on the principles of the Model-View-Controller architecture (MVC).
The goal of the MVC pattern is to provide for a flexible program design, that among other advantanges allows for changing and extending code easily and at the same time it promotes reusability.
Additionally, larger applications profit from the reduction of complexity and the clear and orderly structure of the architecture.

= Features =

We decided not to write a big feature list with absolutely out-standing features (every framework has), but we want you to keep two things in mind:

  # A rich feature list does not say anything about the handling of the framework. You have to work with it every day so it should fit into your coding style.
  #There is not THE framework. The choice of a framework is very subjective and depends first on the project you want to handle and second your own coding style und experience.
So if you want to build a website like facebook.com you should really use Symphony or another framework in its size. But if you usually build smaller sites and you want to deal with your daily business, give Morrow a try.

OK, some people simply need a feature list. Now, here is a list which shows what Morrow distinguishes from other frameworks:

  * Main focus on performance
  * i18n and l10n integration
  * Multi site capable
  * Not only (X)HTML can be outputted. There are additional view   handlers for: XML, JSON, CSV, Excel and Flash LoadVars files
  * Granular adjustable caching
  * Extensive form validation